# CheckPoint Integration Kit

## Overview

A set of software modules that connect Pixel Central Station to a Checkpoint server and provide further communication with it. Enables the collection and processing of threat data from Checkpoint. Contains a custom bridge that supports interaction via Checkpoint APIs. Contains a set of visual elements that display the current system threat. Contains a set of business logic modules that allow the information system to react automatically to an increase in the threat level.
Contains: 
- MQTT based CheckPoint Bridge;
- a set of CheckPoint Agent’s Drivers;
- API connector to CheckPoint Management Server;
- a set of custom Visual Elements (dashboard widgets) that display the state of threats;
- a set of custom Logic Modules that provide an automatic response of the system to changes in the load and state of the threat.
- CheckPoint Integration Additional User Pack that provide full admin access to the core system for one additional user

## Pixel Central Station

Universal SCADA IT infrastructure management system. Allows users to process and store all information related to the operation, location and settings of equipment and software modules. Allows users to activate the necessary event processing protocols (automatic changing of settings, sending notifications), depending on the incoming and predicted data. The management system has the following graphical interfaces: administration, visual control, inventory (including status tracking) of equipment and cable infrastructure. Supports REST and GRPC API. Provides sending notifications via (SMS, WhatsApp, Telegram, WeChat). Supports built-in media server for storing graphic, video and PDF files. Supports the Business Logic Manager to handle Python scripting. Supports MQTT and SNMP bridges for information exchange with external devices and third-party systems.
The platform is built using high performance and industry standard components on the backend side and provides a modern and powerful set of APIs available for its services to achieve high performance from one hand and extensive functionality from the other.
Centralized IT Asset Data and Controls of different vendors enable every stakeholder who needs insights into your company’s IT landscape to speak the same language.​ Connecting and centralizing IT Asset Data to collaborate across silos, locations, and networks.

## CheckPoint Security System

CheckPoint is an innovative and multilevel real time threat prevention system for corporate digital infrastructure. Exclusive intelligence information supplied by CheckPoint provides insights into new cybercrime programs and tools and modifications of well-known viruses and criminal tactics. CheckPoint forensics laboratory analysts provide you with comprehensive data on the most advanced malware targeting our customers. Detecting unknown threats using machine learning technology based on advanced behavior traffic analysis and machine learning algorithms and patterns.
The Traffic Analysis Sensor system detects infected machines and their connections to C&C servers based on malicious rules and signatures. Identifies network anomalies generated by malicious programmes using machine learning algorithms. CheckPoint integrates with our behavior analysis system in order to detect unknown malicious code. It transfers information about incidents to CheckPoint SOC on a secure channel to any corporate SIEM or log storage system. Events are classified in CheckPoint cloud data center. Events are always manually analysed by our experts. SOC experts notify your security staff about critical threats via phone and email with all analysis and results available via a convenient web interface.

## System Components

The Platform has in its Core leverages The World's Most Advanced Open Source Relational Database - PostgreSQL. It allows structured but very flexible data storage including high speed processing and very rich functionality exposed to other components of the system via APIs. Platform supports two types of APIs, namely gRPC and GraphQL,  which can be used for two typical use cases.  gRPC API is a high-performance Southbound API with functions set optimized to high speed processing of  device data flow and device control functions. GraphQL is a modern and powerful API technology with a rich set of functionality which makes it a perfect fit for UI and business logic implementation. GraphQL is used as a Northbound API.
CheckPoint integration kit modules are built-in and effectively complement the kernel components. They provide a convenient interaction with CheckPoint products, process display engines, while using the administration and connectivity of existing business logic and notification engines.

PICTURE!!!!!

## CheckPoint Bridge

CheckPoint Bridge is based on the MQTT machine-to-machine connectivity protocol. IT is useful for connections with remote locations where a small code footprint is required and/or network bandwidth is at a premium. Thanks to MQTT, users have an excellent way to send high volumes of sensor messages (as is common in such applications) to Hitachi platforms and everything in between.
As a result, the designers made a number of key choices which have come to characterize it:
- Simple to implement;
- Publish/subscribe messaging;
- Zero administration (or near-zero administration);
- Minimal on-the-wire footprint;
- Expect and cater for frequent network disruption;
- Continuous session awareness;
- Expect that client applications may have very limited processing resources available;
- Provide traditional messaging qualities of service where the environment allows;
- Flexible and data agnostic.

CheckPoint Bridge pulls in all your time series data (metrics and events) from Hitachi infrastructure making it easy for your developers to use. This data can be used for monitoring your applications and infrastructure as well as enhancing your applications by being queried in a real-time visualization in your application — a single source of truth for all your time series data.
CheckPoint Bridge reads from specified MQTT topics and adds messages to Pixel Central Station. Messages are in the CheckPoint Agent’s Drivers input data formats for post-processing.

## Drivers

### CheckPoint Quantum Maestro Driver

Check Point Maestro introduces to the industry a new way to utilize current hardware investment and maximize appliance capacity in an easy-to manage Hyperscale network security solution to bring our networks and data center to the world of hybrid clouds.
With Maestro, organizations can simplify their data center workflow orchestration and scale up their existing Check Point security gateways on demand — the same way as they can spin up new servers and compute resources in public clouds.
Quantum Maestro Driver allows to utilize feature rich API and decode incoming data flows from the appliance into well structred data representation format accourding to the device capability. It also allows send commands back down to the device. Following features of the appliance are suppored: 

- Up to 52 Gateways (capable of 1.5 Tera/bps of Threat Prevention Performance)
- Spin up new security gateways on demand (Hyperscale).
- Remote VPN management.
- SandBlast Treat Prevention integration.
- Fulscale API support. 


### CheckPoint Quantum Lightspeed Driver

Enterprises need data center security to perform at the speed of the network, to enable the transfer of hundreds of terabytes of data in minutes instead of hours, provide low latency for high frequency financial transactions, while scaling on demand to support high growth businesses like online commerce.
Quantum Lightspeed sets the standard in data center firewall security, delivering 20x better security price performance than competing solutions. Quantum Lightspeed hyper-fast firewalls deliver 5 times the security throughput, scales up to 3 Tbps per system (800 Gbps per single gateway), while delivering 3 microseconds of ultra-low latency.
Quantum Maestro Driver allows to utilize feature rich API and decode incoming data flows from the appliance into well structred data representation format accourding to the device capability. It also allows send commands back down to the device. Following features of the appliance are suppored: 

- Scale Up to 3Tb/s of throughput.
- Support for high frequency apps (Trading).
- Remote VPN management.
- SandBlast Treat Prevention integration.
- Fulscale API support. 


### CheckPoint Quantum Security Gateway Driver

Check Point Quantum Security gateways provide superior security beyond any Next Generation Firewall (NGFW). Best designed for SandBlast’s Zero Day protection, these gateways are the best at preventing the fifth generation of cyber attacks with more than 60 innovative security services. Based on the Infinity Architecture, the new Quantum Security Gateway™ line up of 15 models can deliver up to 1.5 Tbps of threat prevention performance and can scale on demand.r single gateway), while delivering 3 microseconds of ultra-low latency.
Check Point Quantum Security Driver allows to utilize feature rich API and decode incoming data flows from the appliance into well structred data representation format accourding to the device capability. It also allows send commands back down to the device. Following features of the appliance are suppored: 

- R81 Unified Security Management integration. 
- Spin up new security gateways on demand (Hyperscale).
- Hyperscale Remote VPN management.
- SandBlast Zero Day Treat Prevention integration.
- Fulscale API support. 

### CheckPoint Quantum Spark Driver

The Quantum Spark Next Generation Firewalls for small and medium size businesses, feature best-in-class threat protection, are easy to deploy and manage, and integrate communication and security into an “all in one” security gateway solution.
Quantum Spark security gateways provide protection for businesses with one to 500 employees, and can be easily managed from a web portal and from a mobile app.
Check Point Quantum Spark Driver allows to utilize feature rich API and decode incoming data flows from the appliance into well structred data representation format accourding to the device capability. It also allows send commands back down to the device. Following features of the appliance are suppored: 

- Scale Up to 2Gb/s of throughput.
- Endpoint and Mobile Protection.
- Pefrormance based routing for optimized internet access.
- Fulscale API support. 

### Checkpoint Quantum Edge Driver

Quantum Edge protects branch offices on-premise with top-rated Threat Prevention, that can be deployed in minutes, and be managed by a unified threat prevention and access platform.
Check Point Quantum Edge Driver allows to utilize feature rich API and decode incoming data flows from the appliance into well structred data representation format accourding to the device capability. It also allows send commands back down to the device. Following features of the appliance are suppored: 

- Scale Up to 2Gb/s of throughput.
- SD-WAN protection integration. 
- Fulscale API support. 

 
### Checkpoint Quantum IoT Protect Driver

From IP cameras, and smart elevators, to medical devices and industrial controllers, IoT Protect secures your company against IoT network and on-device cyber attacks.
Check Point Quantum IoT Protect Driver allows to utilize feature rich API and decode incoming data flows from the appliance into well structred data representation format accourding to the device capability. It also allows send commands back down to the device. Following features of the appliance are suppored: 

- Scale Up to 1Gb/s of throughput.
- On-device runtime protection. 
- Realtime threat intelligence support. 
- Zero-Trust Segmentation. 
- Fulscale API support. 

## Logic Modules

### Security Analysis Tool

With the Security Analysis Tool, users can use out-of-the-box, predefined rules to improve their predictive cybersecurity analytics. These rules offer additional context for various events on the network, such as user actions and login attempts.
The Security Analysis Tool allows you to use both standard and custom rules to ensure that you adhere to best practices in security threat analysis. In addition, the SAT allows administrators to set thresholds to better define the relationships between events. Since logs are generated at any time of the day, it is easy to get lost in the noise of alerts and notifications. But SAT gives you the ability to customize alert thresholds as you see fit, so you're less likely to get useless pings or miss malicious activity on your network. If Threat Analyzer detects suspicious activity, Security Event Manager can send an automated email or SMS alert to the desired team member. The cybersecurity threat analysis tool makes it easier to identify potential problems in log data - even in a hybrid IT environment.
Security Analysis Tool is designed to send data through a built-in and constantly updated threat analytics channel designed to identify invalid IP addresses, malware, and more, and users can easily search and filter data to better isolate issues, and create custom reports. for compliance and to support forensic analysis.

### Dynamic file analysis

Dynamic file analysis combines several sandboxing approaches for behavioral profiling to cluster and identify similarities in malware behavior and identify complex threats. Powerful rules allow you to identify patterns of behavior that are specific to families and strains of malware, or to pinpoint the exact malicious intent of the malware itself.
Dynamic file analysis uses a set of techniques to develop intelligence, including probabilistic prediction, feature extraction, and context generation.
Machine learning dramatically scales and automates the detection and prevention of cyber threats. Advanced machine learning models help us detect new forms of malware, prevent zero-day attacks, detect targeted malware, and deliver the highest detection rates in the cybersecurity industry. It applies machine learning both in the cloud and on-premises within the client to detect and classify complex threats.
The advanced scan engine is an extremely efficient way to identify families of known malware. It uses proprietary definitions and heuristic algorithms as well as powerful content extraction and deobfuscation techniques to detect malware. This powerful scanning engine is capable of analyzing files much more thoroughly than any endpoint scanning tool, and quickly deduces whether the code is part of a known malware family.
The engine also employs advanced decomposition techniques that extract and reveal all compressed and obfuscated data in a malicious file in real time.

### CheckPoint Connector

CheckPoint Connector will send all your metrics and events stored in Pixel Central Station. You can use Pixel Central Station to collect all your metrics by using drivers or any of your custom metrics using the client libraries. This will provide you with all the data you need to gain full insight into your entire stack. You can then send all these metrics to your central CheckPoint Server instance to get that single pane of glass your teams need to keep your systems, applications, and networks performant.
This driver uses a credential chain for Authentication with the CheckPoint Server API. For this output driver to function correctly, the following variables must be configured: region and namespace. By correctly configuring these variables, CheckPoint Server will receive metrics and gather insights from that point.
You can also use the CheckPoint Connector to discover and backup end nodes that are connected to firewall blades that are managed by the Security Management Server. Tip: Discovery from the multi-domain server is not supported.
